By now, you may have noticed there are many different ways to address the same need when working with
Python code.
For instance, despite being different, these two blocks of codes return the same result.
Now imagine that you want to identify which of them is the one that solves the problem more efficiently
in less time.
The best way to do this is to measure the time that elapses from the beginning to the end of the execution.
For this, we have two modules that can be very useful.
One is time, which serves to establish timestamps in the code that allow us to make comparisons.
The other is time it, which is much more specific, since its main function is to evaluate how long
it takes to execute a given code.
Let's know the differences between both of them, and we will see that not only do they measure the
effectiveness of your code, but they also measure the duration of execution of any block of code.
So let's not waste any more time and let's see them in action in pie term right now.
So now we'll test two functions which will do the same, but in different ways.
The first function is for test and it will allow us to create a list of numbers from one to some number
specified by the user.
This function will do so with a four loop that returns the whole list.
The second function is wild test, which will do exactly the same, but using a wild loop in order to
test both functions and see what they return.
We use print so as to see the first function first, which is for test.
So we'll pass 15 to it.
Then we'll print wild tests and pass the same number to it.
15.
So let's execute this module named Measure Time, which will show us two lists from 1 to 15.
They're exactly the same.
So how can we tell which function did it more efficiently?
Both of them worked properly and achieved their goal.
However, we aim to carry out these tasks, wasting as few resources in as little time as possible.
One way to do that is working with Python built in module named time.
Time allows us to get timestamps and store them in variables which we can compare so as to see which
of them works faster.
So before calling for test, which we don't need to print, since we only want to know how much time
it takes to execute, we'll create a timestamp named beginning which will be equal to time, time and
brackets.
Then we'll create another time stamp named ending, which will be equal to time time.
And that's it.
We have two timestamps, one before and another after our function.
As a result, we'll be able to calculate the time it took to execute this section.
We'll print this to see the difference between ending minus beginning, which will give us a real time
as a result.
So let's do the same with the second function.
And remember, we don't need to print it but execute it.
So let's add the same time stamps and the printing.
If we execute it, we see that it's such a short time.
That time wasn't accurate enough when calculating it.
Therefore, we'll add a longer list to both functions.
A list of 1 million.
This will take longer to calculate, so it's perfect.
So the first function spent 0.266 2 seconds and the second one spent 0.34 2 seconds.
Keeping this in mind, we can say that wild test was slower than four test, meaning that the format
is less efficient.
If I print them again, I'll always get different results because they depend on other several factors,
such as your PC performance.
So this module only works in functions which take a long time to execute.
So it it'll be more difficult to measure the time in basic functions.
For example, if we had to measure a function containing ten here, it wouldn't work and would return
zero.
This means we need another tool because time is not accurate enough when measuring the execution time
of brief sections.
Taking this into consideration, we'll import and use another module named Time.
It.
Notice that time returns an error, so let's delete it.
Time It is perfectly useful in this case because it can measure the execution time of any section.
So if I create an element time it, time it, I'm required to pass a statement set up.
We'll see what this means and a number which is an int.
This will make basic functions repeat themselves many times, resulting in a number which will be able
to measure.
Okay, let's delete this so as to begin again.
And instead of creating our functions like this, we'll create them in parts inside statement and settle
the code associated to that statement.
Don't worry, if you don't get this, the example will be clearer.
We'll create a variable named declaration which will be equal to the function call.
In this case, it will be equal to the first function which is for test.
And we'll pass number ten, which is low.
First part is done.
So let's create set up now.
We'll name it my set up and it will also have this multi-line string where we'll add the contents of
the function to the executed.
We paste that here and we no longer need this.
We have two variables in which we're going to use time it the time it what time it will enter declaration.
Then my setup and number, which is the number of times this function will repeat itself in order to
return a reasonable number.
So we'll repeat this 100,000 times.
That's good.
So time it will repeat this section 100,000 times.
As a result, the length will be higher than 0.0 and we'll be able to analyze it.
So we'll store this in length so as to print it and see it on the screen.
So let's execute it.
And the software tells us that it took 0.20 1 seconds to execute for test 100,000 times.
We'll do the same with wild test.
We'll create declaration too, which will be equal to the Wild Test call and it will have the same value
in brackets ten.
And we'll create my setup too, which would include a multi-line string with the contents of wild test
function.
We'll copy and paste it here.
Finally, we'll create a variable named length two, which will be equal to time it time it which contains
declaration to my set up two and number 100,000 repetitions as well.
Ready?
Now let's print length to.
Now we're able to compare results.
We can see that the former took 0.2 5 seconds and the latter took 0.2 7 seconds.
This is more readable now, but the numbers are quite similar.
So how can we get a more notable difference so as to make a better decision?
Well, we can increase the number of repetitions.
Notice that I've entered 1 million repetitions in each function.
This process will be longer.
As you can see, I've executed it, but the results take some time to appear.
The first one took 2.2 6 seconds and the second one took 2.40 6 seconds.
Without a doubt, we can say that the four test is more efficient than wild tests.
And remember that you have the time module to get and compare the execution times of different sections,
and you also have time it to measure the execution time of a section by repeating it several times and
obtaining a more readable result.
So this is all for now.
Let's go to the next lecture so as to learn about other special modules.
See you there.